Add support for bootstrap containers via API settings (#1387)
bottlerocket-os/bottlerocket: sources/api/bootstrap-containers/README.md

Current version: 0.1.0

## Bootstrap containers

Bootstrap containers are host containers that can be used to setup the host
before services like the ecs-agent, kubelet and docker start. The [configured](../#configuredtarget)
target depends on the systemd units created for this type of containers, thus
blocking the init process until all the bootstrap containers exit.

This type of containers are very similar to normal host containers, they come with
persistent storage and with optional user data. Unlike normal host containers, bootstrap
containers can't be threated as `superpowered`. However, these containers run as privileged
and have access to the underlying root filesystem on `/.bottlerocket/rootfs`.

Bootstrap containers have three different modes:

* `always`: with this setting, the container is executed in all boots.
* `off`: blocks the execution of the container
* `once`: with this setting, the container only runs on the first boot. Upon completion,
the container marks itself as `off`. If you need to execute the containers after the first boot,
you can mark it as `once` and reboot.

## Examples
Given a bootstrap container with the following configuration:

```toml

> [settings.bootstrap-containers.bear]

Reviewer: It looks like you can identify multiple bootstrap containers (negating my other question above). How do you order them - or are they explicitly unordered? That should just be called out in the docs..

Author: I updated the documentation to mention that bootstrap containers are not executed in any order :+1: . Let me know if you have further questions.

source="<SOURCE>"
mode="once"
user-data="ypXCt82h4bSlwrfKlA=="
```

Where `<SOURCE>`, is the url of an image with the following definition:

```Dockerfile
FROM alpine
ADD bootstrap-script /
RUN chmod +x /bootstrap-script
ENTRYPOINT ["sh", "bootstrap-script"]
```

And `bootstrap-script` as:

```sh
#!/bin/sh
BEAR_DIR=/.bottlerocket/bootstrap-containers/bear
cat $BEAR_DIR/user-data

> sleep 120

Reviewer: In this example, will boot be delayed by 120s until this completes?

Author: Yes, that's correct. With this bootstrap container, systemd will "wait" for the container to exit. Upon completion, the boot process will continue.

Reviewer: What happens if the container exits with a failure code?

Author: Hi @diranged sorry for the late response. We added the flag `essential`, it can be set to `true` to fail the boot if the underlying bootstrap container exited with non-zero.

containers can't be treated as `superpowered`. However, these containers have access to
the underlying root filesystem through `/.bottlerocket/rootfs`.

Bootstrap containers have three different modes:

* `always`: with this setting, the container is executed on every boot.
* `off`: blocks the execution of the container
* `once`: with this setting, the container only runs on the first boot. Upon completion,
the container marks itself as `off`. If you need to execute the containers after the first
boot, you can mark it as `once` and reboot.

Bootstrap containers are executed in parallel during the execution of the configured target,
without following a deterministic order. Therefore, bootstrap containers must be independent
from each other. Bootstrap containers have the `essential` flag (which defaults to `false`),
which can be used to fail the boot process if the underlying container task exits with a
non-zero status code.

Bootstrap containers are created in the `bootstrap` containerd's namespace to prevent
collisions with other host containers, therefore you can have use the name for both container
types.

## Examples

> Given a bootstrap container with the following configuration:

Reviewer 2: The example needs some introduction to help connect the dots on some of the bits in the bootstrap script.

```suggestion
Given a bootstrap container called `bear` with the following configuration:
```

Author: Fixed

```toml
[settings.bootstrap-containers.bear]
source="<SOURCE>"
mode="once"
user-data="ypXCt82h4bSlwrfKlA=="
```

Where `<SOURCE>`, is the url of an image with the following definition:

```Dockerfile
FROM alpine
ADD bootstrap-script /
RUN chmod +x /bootstrap-script
ENTRYPOINT ["sh", "bootstrap-script"]
```

And `bootstrap-script` as:

```sh

> #!/bin/sh
> BEAR_DIR=/.bottlerocket/bootstrap-containers/bear
> VAR_DIR=/.bottlerocket/rootfs/var
> MY_DIR=$VAR_DIR/lib/my_directory
> cat $BEAR_DIR/user-data
> mkdir $MY_DIR
> chmod -R o+r $MY_DIR
> chown -R 1000:1000 $MY_DIR
> sleep 120

Reviewer 2: I suggest we take advantage of [the `$prefix/current` directory which has the user-data](https://github.com/bottlerocket-os/bottlerocket/pull/1416) in this example. We should encourage users to develop their own containers against that path instead of hard coding expected `bootstrap-containers` names within scripts:

```suggestion
#!/usr/bin/env sh
# We'll read some data to be written out from given user-data.
USER_DATA_DIR=/.bottlerocket/bootstrap-containers/current
# This is the in-container view of where the host's `/var` can be accessed.
HOST_VAR_DIR=/.bottlerocket/rootfs/var
# The directory that'll be created by this bootstrap container
MY_HOST_DIR=$VAR_DIR/lib/my_directory

# Create it!
mkdir -p "$MY_HOST_DIR"

# Write the user-data to stdout (to the journal) and to our new path:
tee /dev/stdout "$MY_HOST_DIR/bear.txt" < "$USER_DATA_DIR/user-data" 

# The bootstrap container can set the permissions which are seen by the host:
chmod -R o+r "$MY_HOST_DIR"
chown -R 1000:1000 "$MY_HOST_DIR"

# Bootstrap containers *must* finish before boot continues.
# 
# With this, the boot process will be delayed 120 seconds. You can check the
# status of `preconfigured.target` and `bootstrap-containers@bear` to see
# that this sleep kept the system from starting up the apiserver.
#
# From the admin container:
#
# systemctl status preconfigured.target bootstrap-containers@bear
sleep 120
```

Author: Fixed

```

> You should see a new directory under `/var/lib` called `my_directory`, and
> the following command should show something similar to `ʕ·͡ᴥ·ʔ`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You should see a new directory under `/var/lib` called `my_directory`, a file in that directory called `bear.txt`, and the following command should show `ʕ·͡ᴥ·ʔ`
in the bootstrap-container's logs:
```

Author: Fixed
